Good to see you again.
The two types of evaluation metrics
are intrinsic evaluation and
extrinsic evaluation.
Depending on the task you're trying to
optimize for, you can choose one of them.
So, let's dive in.
Allow me to introduce
intrinsic evaluation.
Intrinsic evaluation methods assess how
well the word embeddings inherently
capture the semantic or
syntactic relationships between the words.
Semantics refers to the meaning of words,
whereas syntax refers to the grammar.
You could do this by testing
the word embeddings on analogies.
You could test semantic analogies,
as in finding the missing word in France
is to Paris as Italy is to blank.
You could also evaluate
the embeddings on syntactic analogies,
such as plurals, tenses and comparatives.
As in, seen is to saw as being is to?
One consideration you should
be aware of for this approach,
is that there could be several
possible correct answers.
As in, wolf is to pack as bee is to blank,
where the collective noun and
missing word could, for
instance, be swarm or colony.
Here's an example from the original
Word2vec research publication,
with the word embeddings created
from a huge training set.
I should mention that the word
embeddings were created by a continuous
skip-gram model, and
not a continuous bag of words model.
But the evaluation principle is the same.
Note that the analogies are not perfect.
For example, the word embeddings failed
to completely capture the relationship
between chemical elements and
their symbols.
The symbol for copper is Cu,
the symbol for zinc is Zn,
the symbol for gold is Au,
the symbol for Uranium is U, but
the Word2vec embedding outputs
the word plutonium instead of U.
You could also perform intrinsic
evaluation by using a clustering
algorithm to group similar
word embedding vectors, and
determining of the cluster's
capture related words.
This could be automated using a human
made reference, such as a thesaurus.
Here is a visualization of
clusters taken from a paper
on the evaluation of word embeddings.
If you look at the word cluster,
you can see that the words fight and
agitate are close to each other.
Similarly, the word hair care and
hairdressing are also close to each other.
Interesting, right?
In this week's assignment you will
visualize the word embedding vectors,
which qualifies as a basic intrinsic
evaluation of the vectors that rely
on human judgment to assess
the quality of the embeddings.
But first, I'll show you one more approach
to evaluate the quality of word
embeddings, extrinsic evaluation.